# CS-465 - Module Eight Journal

Compare and contrast the types of frontend development you used in your full stack project, including Express HTML, JavaScript, and the single-page application (SPA).
Why did the backend use a NoSQL MongoDB database?
Frontend development of an application utilizes things like HTML, Javascript, and SPAs to create a dynamic and reactive user interface for a better user experience.  For the backend, though, MongoDB is great at storing and using large amounts of data, as well as providing flexibility and developer-friendly features. Being able to utilize one on the frontend and the other on the backend is what makes Full Stack Development so important to web design.

How is JSON different from Javascript and how does JSON tie together the frontend and backend development pieces?
Provide instances in the full stack process when you refactored code to improve functionality and efficiencies, and name the benefits that come from reusable user interface (UI) components.
JSON and Javascript are very similar to one another, since they both have a base of Javascript.  JSON is a data format that is used to store and transmit structured data; it is incredibly easy for humans to understand and work with since it is formatted for our understanding.  Javascript is a more general programming language that is sometimes easy and sometimes difficult for humans to understand and utilize.  These two are able to tie together the frontend and backend development pieces for data exchange.  The frontend is able to fetch data from the backend using APIs, and then the backend can provide the data to the frontend by converting it to JSON and sending it over HTTP. For our application, we refactored code in multiple different modules to help streamline the program and make the user experience even better; this mainly occured during the development of the API endpoints.

Methods for request and retrieval necessitate various types of API testing of endpoints, in addition to the difficulties of testing with added layers of security. Explain your understanding of methods, endpoints, and security in a full stack application.
Methods are what is used to perform an action; for our project, this might include GET, POST, PUT, and DELETE, which each correspond with a specific action that the program is to take.  Endpoints are the specific URL that shows the location of a given resource; like to find the GET method, you may need to access ./app_admin/trip-card-component.  Security within a full-stack application is a little different, as it has a lot of different layers to it; this might include authenticating the user, input validation, and data encryption to ensure that a user is not gaining access without proper authorization.

How has this course helped you in reaching your professional goals? What skills have you learned, developed, or mastered in this course to help you become a more marketable candidate in your career field?
I am hoping to pursue some sort of career with computers.  This class has helped me to gain a better understanding of how computers work, how websites are programmed, and what sort of steps are needed to connect different programming languages and methods to create a full scale application.  I would like to go into game design when I finally graduate, and gaining all of this knowledge will certainly help me achieve my goal.
